This project served as my dissertation project at university, being the largest project worked on during my time at university. The project required the use of a hypothesis/problem to be solved in the context of the computing industry, from which a literature review was created based on past research into said hypothesis/problem. For my dissertation, I focused on the games industry, specifically focusing on the concept of Dynamic Difficulty Adjustment (DDA) systems in video games. My question was how the inclusion of a DDA system in a video game would affect the accessibility and overall player experience of a game as opposed to use of a more static system.

I first researched into past academic studies of DDA systems in gaming, and then developed a bespoke game demo with an integrated rudimentary DDA system to be used in user research. I had a sample number of participants play through the game demo twice, once without interactions with the DDA system and once with this interaction encouraged, with the game demo generating a set of statistics based on the participant's performance in the game at the end of each playthrough. this data, alongside a range of qualitative data gathered through user experience surveys carried out by the participants at the end of each playthrough, allowed me to generate a set of conclusions that there was a noticable difference in the player experience of the game when utilising a DDA as opposed to a static system, and that there was overall a notable increase in accessibility for various elements of the game, particularly for more casual players.

My work for my dissertation was extremely well received by my dissertation supervisors, earning me a 1st after submission and presentation of my findings.